Now, let's look into types of testing.
The types of testing can broadly be divided in two
functional, non-functional and maintenance.
There are people that would divide it into further categories.
But this is broadly what people understand in the industry.
So functional categories would be unit testing, integration,
smoke or sanity, user acceptance, accessibility, and others.
Let me give you a brief idea of what each of them means.
A unit test is something that tests
a very small piece of code or a method or it could even be a class,
and they're each identified as units.
Integration tests would include
integration between different setups or different projects,
and testing how the projects are interacting with each other.
and if they meet the criteria set by the requirements or not.
Sanity or smoke is usually one of the primary tests that are written to make sure that
the basic test case or the basic used case that is set as per the requirement is met.
User acceptance test is usually run by
the business team or some other teams that are specifically
targeted to make sure that the requirements are met with the solution that is provided,
so more like a manual test.
Accessibility test is usually done to make sure that the software that you have developed
is inclusive to differently abled users.
There were several others that fall under the functional tests.
In this particular course,
we will focus on unit tests because that is what developers are mandated to write.
In terms of non-functional tests,
you have performance test,
scalability tests, and others.
Performance test is run to make sure that your application
performs according to the SLA or Service Level Agreement under stress or underload.
What I mean by SLA is,
it could say that your application must
respond or the response time of your application is under 10 milliseconds.
It could say that your up time or availability time is 99 percent,
and there were several other categories under which SLAs can be set.
That is something that your product team decides and that is something that
the other teams or a performance testing needs to ensure by running performance tests.
Scalability test is again,
something that is similar.
But what it does is that it makes sure that if there are
users or the traffic to your application increases,
then your application is able to scale.
A maintenance is usually regression and others,
maintenance means that your application,
if there is new piece of code added to your project,
then the previous tests or the previous functionality that was working in a set way,
that is not broken.
So regression makes sure of that.